REEL THREE BOTS - INITIAL, UNOPTIMISED RESEARCH - 2 OCTOBER 2026

These are new screenshot reconstructions, not changes to existing production EAs.
All three EX5 files deliberately require MT5 Strategy Tester. Nothing is attached
to a live chart. Each individual native test starts with USD 10,000 and fixed
USD 100 planned stop risk, with volume rounded DOWN; below-minimum volume is
skipped. Commissions, swaps, spread and 150 ms execution delay are included as
provided by the Exness demo tester environment. Slippage and gaps can exceed
planned risk. Results are individual tests, not a shared portfolio simulation.

Primary window: 1 October 2025 through 1 October 2026, end boundary 2 October.
Fresh six-month window: 1 April 2026 through 1 October 2026, end boundary 2 October.
Historical warm-up precedes the entry window and produces no entries.
Model 4 is real-tick mode but MT5 generates ticks when broker real ticks are absent;
read run.json tick_notes and report history_quality. Do not call the whole yearly
window a 100% real-tick result. Smoke tests are implementation checks, not evidence
for selecting a strategy. None of these runs is untouched out-of-sample validation.

SHARED PORTFOLIO ADDITION (requested after the individual raw tests)
ThreeBotPortfolio.ex5 is a native multicurrency MT5 test on ONE USD hedging account.
DE30 range plus two independent gold modules can hold positions simultaneously;
each module retains its own position limit and magic ID. No extra daily/FTMO
controls are added. Tester leverage remains 1:2000, not FTMO account leverage.
InpRiskPercent=1 means 1% of CURRENT SHARED BALANCE per new trade. Each module's
sizing target refreshes before its entry logic. InpRiskPercent=0 uses fixed USD
comparison mode. Pending range risk is sized when placed, not continuously resized.
Same downward lot rounding and minimum-lot skip policy as the raw individual tests.
Gold runs on every XAUUSD chart tick; DE30 checks its latest quote from chart events
and a 1-second timer fallback. Shared execution scheduling/conversion quotes can
produce slightly different entries than separate single-symbol tests.
Actual portfolio equity/balance/margin are exported at 5-minute intervals. Native
MT5 reports measure full equity drawdown; chart DD is sampled and can understate it.
One range placement was rejected with invalid price (10015) on 2 June 2026 after
execution delay; that day was skipped. Annual test also skipped four market-closed
ATR signals. These rejections are retained in the results, not repaired post hoc.
The report is Shared Portfolio.html. Frozen source/EX5 copies are saved alongside
the native runs. To reproduce a fresh test:
  python build_portfolio.py
  python run.py compile portfolio-percent
  python run.py run portfolio-percent 6m|1y
  python portfolio_report.py
Existing results cannot be overwritten by the runner. build_portfolio.py adapts
the frozen single-bot common source mechanically into independent stateful modules;
original single-bot source hashes and baseline results remain unchanged.

1. DE40 RANGE IDEA / EXNESS DE30 DATA PROXY - DE40Range.ex5
The available instrument is named DE30 and described by the broker as Germany 30
Index. This has NOT been independently certified as the exact DE40 contract/feed.
Report results as Exness DE30, not verified DE40 performance.
Reference clock: UTC+2 in winter / UTC+3 between the last Sundays in March and
October (switch at 01:00 UTC); underlying Exness server offset in these tests is 0.
Set InpSeasonalReferenceClock=false to use broker clock directly (unrun alternative).
High/low: available completed M1 bars in [08:00,11:00), reference clock.
Place unbuffered buy stop at high / sell stop at low on first eligible tick after
11:00, within five minutes. Initial SL at the opposite boundary. No TP or trailing.
Cancel opposite pending on fill, maximum one filled entry per day. Expiry and
flatten at 18:00 reference clock (first executable tick). If one order fails to
place, cancel the other. If levels are already crossed or too close to market,
skip the day rather than chase entry. OCO is software cancellation, not an atomic
broker-side guarantee; test journals track double-fill races.

2. GOLD ATR CANDLE IDEA - GoldATRCandle.ex5
Check each completed H1 candle using broker's H1 alignment. Native MT5 ATR(200),
including signal candle by default (InpATRIncludesSignal=true).
Signal range is high-low, strictly greater than 2.5 ATR. Buy requires bullish body
and close in upper 25%; sell requires bearish body and close in lower 25%.
Market entry on first tick of next H1 bar, within five minutes; no future candle
is read. SL = signal close +/- 0.5% of signal close; TP = signal close +/- 3.5%.
Actual execution price, spread and delay can change the nominal 7:1 reward/risk.
Assumption: at most one open position. Other signals while occupied are skipped.
No trailing, break-even or time exit. A market-closed rejection is not chased later.

3. GOLD DONCHIAN IDEA - GoldDonchian.ex5
Channel: highest high / lowest low of latest 175 completed H1 bars at decision time.
Entry trigger is last completed M1 close strictly outside the channel; market
entry at first tick of next M1 bar, within 60 seconds. SL is 0.5% of entry quote;
TP is 1% of entry quote. Actual fill differences can change the nominal 2:1.
Assumption: one open position total, no opposite-side hedge. Each side disarms
after successful entry and resets on a completed M1 crossing of the rolling
channel midpoint in the opposite direction. Failed entries do not disarm a side.
Trailing checks every tick when executable favourable move reaches 0.5% of entry
price. Candidate SL follows current Bid for buy / Ask for sell at a distance of
0.1% of original entry price. SL only tightens and must respect broker stop levels.
No additional session restriction, break-even or timed exit.

Reproduce in the isolated research terminal:
  python run.py compile range|atr|donchian
  python run.py run range|atr|donchian smoke|1y|6m
Existing result folders are protected from reuse/overwrite. The runner checks
fresh report creation, actual tester inputs, warm-up exclusion, all positions
closed, and equality of ledger net P/L to native report net P/L. Raw source hashes
are saved with each result. Never treat compile success as profitability evidence.
